docs: add env addons section in v1.25 blog post (#4364)
aws/copilot-cli: site/content/blogs/release-v125.en.md

    See the section [Overview](../docs/concepts/overview.en.md) for a more detailed introduction to AWS Copilot.

## Environment Addons

You can now deploy addons associated with your environments.

Addons are additional AWS resources that are not integrated in Copilot by default - for example, DynamoDB, RDS, etc. 
Environment addons are additional resources managed on the environment level. Their lifecycle will be tied
to your environment: you will run `copilot env deploy` to create or update your environment addons; 
when you run `copilot env delete` against an environment, Copilot will try to delete its addons as well.

If you are already familiar with workload addons, then good news - 
the experience of managing environment addons is pretty similar.

#### Getting Started
##### Step 1: Model additional AWS resources with CloudFormation

> Today, addons only support modelling using CloudFormation. For environment addons, you must:

Reviewer: to match page location spelling
```suggestion
Today, addons only support modeling using CloudFormation. For environment addons, you must:
```

1. Have `App` and `Env` in the `Parameters` section.
2. Include at least one `Resource`.

???- note "Sample CloudFormation template"

>     Here is an example CloudFormation template that you can use to experiment with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Here is a CloudFormation template example that you can experiment with.
```

    ```yaml
    AWSTemplateFormatVersion: 2010-09-09
    Parameters:
      App:
        Type: String
        Description: Your application's name.
      Env:
        Type: String

>         Description: he name of the environment being deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Description: The name of the environment being deployed.
```

    Resources:
      MyTable:
        Type: 'AWS::DynamoDB::Table'
        Properties:
          TableName: MyEnvAddonsGettingStartedTable
          AttributeDefinitions:
            - AttributeName: key
              AttributeType: S
          KeySchema:
            - AttributeName: key
              KeyType: HASH
          ProvisionedThroughput:
            ReadCapacityUnits: 5
            WriteCapacityUnits: 2
    Outputs:
      MyTableARN:
        Value: !GetAtt MyTable.Arn
        Export:
          Name: !Sub ${App}-${Env}-MyTableARN
      MyTableName:
        Value: !Ref MyTable
        Export:
          Name: !Sub ${App}-${Env}-MyTableName
    ```

##### Step 2: Store the CFN template under `copilot/environments/addons`

If you have run `copilot env init`, you should already have the folder `copilot/environments` in your workspace.
If you haven't, it's recommended to do so now - you will need it sooner or later.

> At the end, your workspace structure may look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Afterward, your workspace structure may look like this:
```

  Env:
    Type: String
    Description: The name of the environment being deployed.

Conditions:
  IsTestEnv: !Equals [ !Ref Env, "test" ]  # <- Use `Conditions` section to specify "test"-specific configurations.

Mappings:
  ScalingConfigurationMapByEnv:
    test:
      "DBMinCapacity": 0.5
    prod:
      "DBMinCapacity": 1
```

### Integrating With Workloads
You can reference values from your environment addons in your workload-level resources. 

#### Reference Environment Addons Values In Workload Addon

##### Step 1: Export values from your environment addons
In an environment addon template, you should add an `Outputs` section, and define the `Output` that you want your 
workload resource to reference. See [this doc](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/outputs-section-structure.html) for CloudFormation `Outputs` syntax.

Taking the example template that we provided - this is the `Outputs` section that we have added in the example.
```yaml
Outputs:
  MyTableARN:
    Value: !GetAtt MyTable.Arn
    Export:
      Name: !Sub ${App}-${Env}-MyTableARN
  MyTableName:
    Value: !Ref MyTable
    Export:
      Name: !Sub ${App}-${Env}-MyTableName
```

> You can specify any name you like for `Export.Name`. However, the name must be unique within an AWS region; therefore 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can specify any name you like for `Export.Name`. However, the name must be unique within an AWS region; therefore, 
```

we recommend that you namespace it with `${App}` and `${Env}` to reduce the chances of name collision. 
With the namespace, for example, say your application's name  is `"my-app"`, 
and you deployed the addons with environment `test`, then the final export name would be `my-app-test-MyTableName`.

After you've made the code change, run `copilot env deploy` for the change to take effect.

##### Step 2: Import the values from your workload addons.

In your workload addons, use the [`Fn::ImportValue`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/intrinsic-function-reference-importvalue.html) function to import the value that you just exported from your environment addons.

> Continuing the example that we had. Say now I want my `db-front` service to access `MyTable`, I will create a workload addon 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Continuing the above example, say I now want my `db-front` service to access `MyTable`. I will create a workload addon 
```

the experience of managing environment addons is pretty similar.

#### Getting Started
##### Step 1: Model additional AWS resources with CloudFormation
Today, addons only support modelling using CloudFormation. For environment addons, you must:

1. Have `App` and `Env` in the `Parameters` section.
2. Include at least one `Resource`.

[Here](TODO: link) is an example CloudFormation template that you can use to experiment.

##### Step 2: Store the CFN template under `copilot/environments/addons`

If you have run `copilot env init`, you should already have the folder `copilot/environments` in your workspace.
If you haven't, it's recommended to do so now - you will need it sooner or later.

At the end, your workspace structure may look like this:
```
copilot/
├── environments/ 
│   ├── addons/  
│   │     ├── appmesh.yml         
│   │     └── ddb.yml      # <- You can have multiple addons.  
│   ├── test/ 
│   │     └─── manifest.yml 
│   └── dev/ 
│         └── manifest.yml
└── web
    ├── addons/
    │     └── s3.yml       # <- A workload addon template.
    └─── manifest.yml 
```

##### Step 3: Run `copilot env deploy`

> After you run `copilot env deploy`, Copilot will scan through the `addons` folder to look for addons template. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you run `copilot env deploy`, Copilot will scan through the `addons` folder to look for addons templates. 
```

If it is able to find any, it will deploy the templates along with the environment. 

##### (Optional) Step 4: Verify the deployment

You can verify the deployment by going to the [AWS CloudFormation console](https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=us-east-1#/stacks) 
in your region. You should be able to find a stack named `[app]-[env]-AddonsStack-[random string]`. This is a nested stack
created under your environment stack, named `[app]-[env]`.

### Feature Parity With Workload Addons
Environment addons is shipped with all existing features available for workload addons. This means that:

1. You can refer to customized `Parameters` in addition to the required `App` and `Env`.
2. In your templates, you can reference local paths. Copilot will upload those local files and replace the relevant
resource properties with the uploaded S3 location.

Read [here](TODO: link) for more!

### Other Considerations
All environments (in the example above, both "test" and "dev") will share the same addon templates. 

> Just like today’s workload-level addons, any environment-specific configuration should be specified inside the 

Reviewer: Should we emphasize that they won't be able to deploy two different envs with addons without making some env-specific config bc there will be a resource duplication?

Author: > resource duplication

As long as they don't hard code the resource name, CFN will auto generate a resource name based on the stack name, which is namespaced by app and env. But yes there is the possibility of resource duplication when they do hardcode the name

I want to avoid including too much information in the blog post though. Do you think it's acceptable if I mention it in the doc?

> addon templates via the `Conditions` and `Mappings` sections. 

Reviewer: should we give a code snippet example?

```

### Integrating With Workloads
You can reference values from your environment addons in your workload-level resources. 

#### Reference Environment Addons Values In Workload Addon

##### Step 1: Export values from your environment addons
In an environment addon template, you should add an `Outputs` section, and define the `Output` that you want your 

> workload resource to reference to. See [this doc](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/outputs-section-structure.html) for CloudFormation `Outputs` syntax.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
workload resource to reference. See [this doc](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/outputs-section-structure.html) for CloudFormation `Outputs` syntax.
```

Taking the example template that we provided - this is the `Outputs` section that we have added in the example.
```yaml
Outputs:
  MyTableARN:
    Value: !GetAtt MyTable.Arn
    Export:
      Name: !Sub ${App}-${Env}-MyTableARN
  MyTableName:
    Value: !Ref MyTable
    Export:
      Name: !Sub ${App}-${Env}-MyTableName
```

You can specify any name you like for `Export.Name`. However, the name must be unique within an AWS region; therefore 

> we recommend you to namespace it with `${App}` and `${Env}` to reduce the chances of name collision. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we recommend that you namespace it with `${App}` and `${Env}` to reduce the chances of name collision. 
```

With the namespace, for example, say your application's name  is `"my-app"`, 
and you deployed the addons with environment `test`, then the final export name would be `my-app-test-MyTableName`.

After you've made the code change, run `copilot env deploy` for the change to take effect.

##### Step 2: Import the values from your workload addons.

> In your workload addons, use [`Fn::ImportValue`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/intrinsic-function-reference-importvalue.html) function to import the value that you just exported from your environment addons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your workload addons, use the [`Fn::ImportValue`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/intrinsic-function-reference-importvalue.html) function to import the value that you just exported from your environment addons.
```

Continuing the example that we had. Say now I want my `db-front` service to access `MyTable`, I will create a workload addon 

> attached to `db-front`, with an IAM policy that gives it the access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
attached to `db-front` with an IAM policy that gives it access.
```

```yaml
Parameters:
  App:
    Type: String
    Description: Your application's name.
  Env:
    Type: String
    Description: The environment name your service, job, or workflow is being deployed to.
  Name:
    Type: String
    Description: The name of the service, job, or workflow being deployed.
Resources:
  MyTableAccessPolicy:
    Type: AWS::IAM::ManagedPolicy
    Properties:
      Description: Grants CRUD access to the Dynamo DB table
      PolicyDocument:
        Version: '2012-10-17'
        Statement:
          - Sid: DDBActions
            Effect: Allow
            Action:

>               - dynamodb:* # NOTE: Scope down the permissions in your real application. This is done so that the blog isn't too long!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              - dynamodb:* # NOTE: Scope down the permissions in your real application. This is done so that this blog post isn't too long!
```

            Resource: 
              Fn::ImportValue:                # <- We import the table ARN from the environment addons.
                !Sub ${App}-${Env}-MyTableARN # <- The export name that we used.
```

For another example, suppose you did not namespace your `Export.Name`, and instead gave your export a name like this:
```yaml
Outputs:
  MyTableARN:
    Value: !GetAtt MyTable.Arn
    Export:
      Name: !Sub MyTableARN
```

You should instead import this value with
```yaml
Fn::ImportValue:       
  !Sub MyTableARN
```

This is how you would hook your workload addons with your environment addons!

#### Reference Environment Addons Values In Workload Manifests

If you need to reference any value from your environment addons - for example, adding a secret created in an environment addon
to your service - you can use the feature [`from_cfn` in workload manifests](#import-values-from-cloudformation-stacks-in-workload-manifests) 
to do so.

##### Step 1: Export values from your environment addons

> Same as working with workload addons, you need to export the value from your environment addons. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Same as when working with workload addons, you need to export the value from your environment addons. 
```
